---
layout: post
title: Cross
name: cross
---

Technically speaking, this cross is a non-regular dodecagon as it has 12 sides and 12 angles.
With SCG, there are several ways it could be made; in this case we've used a single path element.
{% highlight html %}
<svg>
	<path d="M150,50H250V150H350V250H250V350H150V250H50V150H150Z" fill="none" stroke="#333" />
</svg>
{% endhighlight %}

The path data, `M150,50H250V150H350V250H250V350H150V250H50V150H150Z` has been generated by javascript is the most compact way to write it out. If you were writing this by hand, you may find it useful to include some spaces or commas. Let's break it into smaller chunks.

* `M150,50` means move the digital pen to (150,50) which is the left corner of the top of the cross.
* `H250` means draw a horizontal line from the current position to `x=250`. This gives us the top line of our cross.
* `V150` tells us to draw a vertical line from the current position to `y=150`, which is the location of the top right corner of the middle of the cross.
* `H350` draws a horizontal line to the top corner of the left arm of the cross
* `V250` draws a vertical line down to the bottom corner of the left arm of the cross
* `H250` draws a horizontal line back to the bottom left corner of the middle of the cross.

This process of alternating horizontal and vertical lines continues all the way round the cross, until we get to the last corner. Instead of having to write `V50`, we can simply write `Z` which tells the browser to draw a line from the current position to where the path originally started.
