---
layout: post
title: Heart
name: heart
---

This heart shape is very similar to the teardrop shape, but it has two semicircles instead of one, and, vertically speaking, it's oriented the opposite way up.
`centralHeight` controls the distance from the top-middle point of the heart to the bottom tip of the heart, and `width`
controls the maximum width of the heart. The diameter of each semicircle is exactly equal to half of `width`.

{% highlight html %}
<!-- Example static SVG for the heart shape -->
<svg width='400px' height='400px'>
	<path transform="translate(0,50)" d="M200,100A75,75 0 0,0 50,100C50,166 200,233 200,300 C200,233 350,166 350,100 A75,75 0 0,0 200,100" fill="none" stroke="#333" stroke-width="2"/>
</svg>
{% endhighlight %}

Just like the [teardrop]({% post_url 2013-09-09-teardrop %}), the edges of the heart are connected to the tip, via cubic bezier curves.
The x-coordinate of the control points is fixed to be in line with the anchors to keep things symmetrical.
However, the y-coordinate can be changed by adjusting `yCP1` or `yCP2`.

Breaking the data into chunks:

* We have elected to use `transform="translate(0,50)"` to nudge the whole shape down by 50px, to keep the maths as simple as possible, yet keep the heart as central as possible.
This means that all the following coordinates will actually be drawn on the svg canvas as if they have all had 50px added to them.
* `M200,100` moves the pen to the top-middle point of the heart
* `A75,75 0 0,0 50,100` draws the first semicircle, going to the far left edge.
* `C50,166 200,233 200,300` draws a cubic bezier down to the bottom tip of the heart.
* `C200,233 350,166 350,100` draws a cubic bezier up to the far right of the heart.
* `A75,75 0 0,0 200,100` draws the second semicircle, back to the top middle point.